<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-2-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
			<p>The head of the Lycurgus branch of the Griffiths, as contrasted with the father of the Kansas City family, was most arresting. Unlike his shorter and more confused brother of the Door of Hope, whom he had not even seen for thirty years, he was a little above the average in height, very well-knit, although comparatively slender, shrewd of eye, and incisive both as to manner and speech. Long used to contending for himself, and having come by effort as well as results to know that he was above the average in acumen and commercial ability, he was inclined at times to be a bit intolerant of those who were not. He was not ungenerous or unpleasant in manner, but always striving to maintain a calm and judicial air. And he told himself by way of excuse for his mannerisms that he was merely accepting himself at the value that others placed upon him and all those who, like himself, were successful.</p>
			<p>Having arrived in Lycurgus about twenty-five years before with some capital and a determination to invest in a new collar enterprise which had been proposed to him, he had succeeded thereafter beyond his wildest expectations. And naturally he was vain about it. His family at this time‚ÅÝ‚Äîtwenty-five years later‚ÅÝ‚Äîunquestionably occupied one of the best, as well as the most tastefully constructed residences in Lycurgus. They were also esteemed as among the few best families of this region‚ÅÝ‚Äîbeing, if not the oldest, at least among the most conservative, respectable and successful in Lycurgus. His two younger children, if not the eldest, were much to the front socially in the younger and gayer set and so far nothing had happened to weaken or darken his prestige.</p>
			<p>On returning from Chicago on this particular day, after having concluded several agreements there which spelled trade harmony and prosperity for at least one year, he was inclined to feel very much at ease and on good terms with the world. Nothing had occurred to mar his trip. In his absence the Griffiths Collar and Shirt Company had gone on as though he had been present. Trade orders at the moment were large.</p>
			<p>Now as he entered his own door he threw down a heavy bag and fashionably made coat and turned to see what he rather expected‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBella hurrying toward him. Indeed she was his pet, the most pleasing and different and artistic thing, as he saw it, that all his years had brought to him‚ÅÝ‚Äîyouth, health, gayety, intelligence and affection‚ÅÝ‚Äîall in the shape of a pretty daughter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, Daddy,‚Äù she called most sweetly and enticingly as she saw him enter. ‚ÄúIs that you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. At least it feels a little like me at the present moment. How‚Äôs my baby girl?‚Äù And he opened his arms and received the bounding form of his last born. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a good, strong, healthy girl, I‚Äôll say,‚Äù he announced as he withdrew his affectionate lips from hers. ‚ÄúAnd how‚Äôs the bad girl been behaving herself since I left? No fibbing this time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, just fine, Daddy. You can ask anyone. I couldn‚Äôt be better.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd your mother?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe‚Äôs all right, Daddy. She‚Äôs up in her room. I don‚Äôt think she heard you come in.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd Myra? Is she back from Albany yet?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. She‚Äôs in her room. I heard her playing just now. I just got in myself a little while ago.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAy, hai. Gadding about again. I know you.‚Äù He held up a genial forefinger, warningly, while Bella swung onto one of his arms and kept pace with him up the stairs to the floor above.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, no, I wasn‚Äôt either, now,‚Äù she cooed shrewdly and sweetly. ‚ÄúJust see how you pick on me, Daddy. I was only over with Sondra for a little while. And what do you think, Daddy? They‚Äôre going to give up the place at Greenwood and build a big handsome bungalow up on Twelfth Lake right away. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFinchley‚Äôs going to buy a big electric launch for Stuart and they‚Äôre going to live up there next summer, maybe all the time, from May until October. And so are the Cranstons, maybe.‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, long used to his younger daughter‚Äôs wiles, was interested at the moment not so much by the thought that she wished to convey‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat Twelfth Lake was more desirable, socially than Greenwood‚ÅÝ‚Äîas he was by the fact that the Finchleys were able to make this sudden and rather heavy expenditure for social reasons only.</p>
			<p>Instead of answering Bella he went on upstairs and into his wife‚Äôs room. He kissed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, looked in upon Myra, who came to the door to embrace him, and spoke of the successful nature of the trip. One could see by the way he embraced his wife that there was an agreeable understanding between them‚ÅÝ‚Äîno disharmony‚ÅÝ‚Äîby the way he greeted Myra that if he did not exactly sympathize with her temperament and point of view, at least he included her within the largess of his affection.</p>
			<p>As they were talking <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝTruesdale announced that dinner was ready, and Gilbert, having completed his toilet, now entered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI say, Dad,‚Äù he called, ‚ÄúI have an interesting thing I want to see you about in the morning. Can I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right, I‚Äôll be there. Come in about noon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCome on all, or the dinner will be getting cold,‚Äù admonished <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths earnestly, and forthwith Gilbert turned and went down, followed by Griffiths, who still had Bella on his arm. And after him came <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths and Myra, who now emerged from her room and joined them.</p>
			<p>Once seated at the table, the family forthwith began discussing topics of current local interest. For Bella, who was the family‚Äôs chief source of gossip, gathering the most of it from the Snedeker School, through which all the social news appeared to percolate most swiftly, suddenly announced: ‚ÄúWhat do you think, Mamma? Rosetta Nicholson, that niece of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝDisston Nicholson, who was over here last summer from Albany‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know, she came over the night of the Alumnae Garden Party on our lawn‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou remember‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe young girl with the yellow hair and squinty blue eyes‚ÅÝ‚Äîher father owns that big wholesale grocery over there‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, she‚Äôs engaged to that Herbert Tickham of Utica, who was visiting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝLambert last summer. You don‚Äôt remember him, but I do. He was tall and dark and sorta awkward, and awfully pale, but very handsome‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, a regular movie hero.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere you go, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths,‚Äù interjected Gilbert shrewdly and cynically to his mother. ‚ÄúA delegation from the Misses Snedeker‚Äôs Select School sneaks off to the movies to brush up on heroes from time to time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Griffiths senior suddenly observed: ‚ÄúI had a curious experience in Chicago this time, something I think the rest of you will be interested in.‚Äù He was thinking of an accidental encounter two days before in Chicago between himself and the eldest son, as it proved to be, of his younger brother Asa. Also of a conclusion he had come to in regard to him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, what is it, Daddy?‚Äù pleaded Bella at once. ‚ÄúDo tell me about it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSpin the big news, Dad,‚Äù added Gilbert, who, because of the favor of his father, felt very free and close to him always.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, while I was in Chicago at the Union League Club, I met a young man who is related to us, a cousin of you three children, by the way, the eldest son of my brother Asa, who is out in Denver now, I understand. I haven‚Äôt seen or heard from him in thirty years.‚Äù He paused and mused dubiously.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot the one who is a preacher somewhere, Daddy?‚Äù inquired Bella, looking up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, the preacher. At least I understand he was for a while after he left home. But his son tells me he has given that up now. He‚Äôs connected with something in Denver‚ÅÝ‚Äîa hotel, I think.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut what‚Äôs his son like?‚Äù interrogated Bella, who only knew such well groomed and ostensibly conservative youths and men as her present social status and supervision permitted, and in consequence was intensely interested. The son of a western hotel proprietor!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA cousin? How old is he?‚Äù asked Gilbert instantly, curious as to his character and situation and ability.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, he‚Äôs a very interesting young man, I think,‚Äù continued Griffiths tentatively and somewhat dubiously, since up to this hour he had not truly made up his mind about Clyde. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs quite good-looking and well-mannered, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout your own age, I should say, Gil, and looks a lot like you‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery much so‚ÅÝ‚Äîsame eyes and mouth and chin.‚Äù He looked at his son examiningly. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs a little bit taller, if anything, and looks a little thinner, though I don‚Äôt believe he really is.‚Äù</p>
			<p>At the thought of a cousin who looked like him‚ÅÝ‚Äîpossibly as attractive in every way as himself‚ÅÝ‚Äîand bearing his own name, Gilbert chilled and bristled slightly. For here in Lycurgus, up to this time, he was well and favourably known as the only son and heir presumptive to the managerial control of his father‚Äôs business, and to at least a third of the estate, if not more. And now, if by any chance it should come to light that there was a relative, a cousin of his own years and one who looked and acted like him, even‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe bridled at the thought. Forthwith (a psychic reaction which he did not understand and could not very well control) he decided that he did not like him‚ÅÝ‚Äîcould not like him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs he doing now?‚Äù he asked in a curt and rather sour tone, though he attempted to avoid the latter element in his voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, he hasn‚Äôt much of a job, I must say,‚Äù smiled Samuel Griffiths, meditatively. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs only a bellhop in the Union League Club in Chicago, at present, but a very pleasant and gentlemanly sort of a boy, I will say. I was quite taken with him. In fact, because he told me there wasn‚Äôt much opportunity for advancement where he was, and that he would like to get into something where there was more chance to do something and be somebody, I told him that if he wanted to come on here and try his luck with us, we might do a little something for him‚ÅÝ‚Äîgive him a chance to show what he could do, at least.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He had not intended to set forth at once the fact that he became interested in his nephew to this extent, but‚ÅÝ‚Äîrather to wait and thrash it out at different times with both his wife and son, but the occasion having seemed to offer itself, he had spoken. And now that he had, he felt rather glad of it, for because Clyde so much resembled Gilbert he did want to do a little something for him.</p>
			<p>But Gilbert bristled and chilled, the while Bella and Myra, if not <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, who favored her only son in everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîeven to preferring him to be without a blood relation or other rival of any kind, rather warmed to the idea. A cousin who was a Griffiths and good-looking and about Gilbert‚Äôs age‚ÅÝ‚Äîand who, as their father reported, was rather pleasant and well-mannered‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat pleased Bella and Myra while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, noting Gilbert‚Äôs face darken, was not so moved. He would not like him. But out of respect for her husband‚Äôs authority and general ability in all things, she now remained silent. But not so, Bella.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, you‚Äôre going to give him a place, are you, Dad?‚Äù she commented. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs interesting. I hope he‚Äôs better-looking than the rest of our cousins.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBella,‚Äù chided <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, while Myra, recalling a gauche uncle and cousin who had come on from Vermont several years before to visit them a few days, smiled wisely. At the same time Gilbert, deeply irritated, was mentally fighting against the idea. He could not see it at all. ‚ÄúOf course we‚Äôre not turning away applicants who want to come in and learn the business right along now, as it is,‚Äù he said sharply.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I know,‚Äù replied his father, ‚Äúbut not cousins and nephews exactly. Besides he looks very intelligent and ambitious to me. It wouldn‚Äôt do any great harm if we let at least one of our relatives come here and show what he can do. I can‚Äôt see why we shouldn‚Äôt employ him as well as another.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt believe Gil likes the idea of any other fellow in Lycurgus having the same name and looking like him,‚Äù suggested Bella, slyly, and with a certain touch of malice due to the fact that her brother was always criticizing her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, what rot!‚Äù Gilbert snapped irritably. ‚ÄúWhy don‚Äôt you make a sensible remark once in a while? What do I care whether he has the same name or not‚ÅÝ‚Äîor looks like me, either?‚Äù His expression at the moment was particularly sour.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGilbert!‚Äù pleaded his mother, reprovingly. ‚ÄúHow can you talk so? And to your sister, too?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I don‚Äôt want to do anything in connection with this young man if it‚Äôs going to cause any hard feelings here,‚Äù went on Griffiths senior. ‚ÄúAll I know is that his father was never very practical and I doubt if Clyde has ever had a real chance.‚Äù (His son winced at this friendly and familiar use of his cousin‚Äôs first name.) ‚ÄúMy only idea in bringing him on here was to give him a start. I haven‚Äôt the faintest idea whether he would make good or not. He might and again he might not. If he didn‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù He threw up one hand as much as to say, ‚ÄúIf he doesn‚Äôt, we will have to toss him aside, of course.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I think that‚Äôs very kind of you, father,‚Äù observed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths, pleasantly and diplomatically. ‚ÄúI hope he proves satisfactory.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd there‚Äôs another thing,‚Äù added Griffiths wisely and sententiously. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt expect this young man, so long as he is in my employ and just because he‚Äôs a nephew of mine, to be treated differently to any other employee in the factory. He‚Äôs coming here to work‚ÅÝ‚Äînot play. And while he is here, trying, I don‚Äôt expect any of you to pay him any social attention‚ÅÝ‚Äînot the slightest. He‚Äôs not the sort of boy anyhow, that would want to put himself on us‚ÅÝ‚Äîat least he didn‚Äôt impress me that way, and he wouldn‚Äôt be coming down here with any notion that he was to be placed on an equal footing with any of us. That would be silly. Later on, if he proves that he is really worth while, able to take care of himself, knows his place and keeps it, and any of you wanted to show him any little attention, well, then it will be time enough to see, but not before then.‚Äù</p>
			<p>By then, the maid, Amanda, assistant to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝTruesdale, was taking away the dinner plates and preparing to serve the dessert. But as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝGriffiths rarely ate dessert, and usually chose this period, unless company was present, to look after certain stock and banking matters which he kept in a small desk in the library, he now pushed back his chair, arose, excusing himself to his family, and walked into the library adjoining. The others remained.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI would like to see what he‚Äôs like, wouldn‚Äôt you?‚Äù Myra asked her mother.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. And I do hope he measures up to all of your father‚Äôs expectations. He will not feel right if he doesn‚Äôt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt get this,‚Äù observed Gilbert, ‚Äúbringing people on now when we can hardly take care of those we have. And besides, imagine what the bunch around here will say if they find out that our cousin was only a bellhop before coming here!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, well, they won‚Äôt have to know that, will they?‚Äù said Myra.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, won‚Äôt they? Well, what‚Äôs to prevent him from speaking about it‚ÅÝ‚Äîunless we tell him not to‚ÅÝ‚Äîor someone coming along who has seen him there.‚Äù His eyes snapped viciously. ‚ÄúAt any rate, I hope he doesn‚Äôt. It certainly wouldn‚Äôt do us any good around here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And Bella added, ‚ÄúI hope he‚Äôs not dull as Uncle Allen‚Äôs two boys. They‚Äôre the most uninteresting boys I ever did see.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBella,‚Äù cautioned her mother once more.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
