<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="book-2" id="chapter-2-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
			<p>In so far as his life at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCuppy‚Äôs went, he was not so very happily placed there, either. For that was but a commonplace rooming and boarding house, which drew to it, at best, such conservative mill and business types as looked on work and their wages, and the notions of the middle class religious world of Lycurgus as most essential to the order and well being of the world. From the point of view of entertainment or gayety, it was in the main a very dull place.</p>
			<p>At the same time, because of the presence of one Walter Dillard‚ÅÝ‚Äîa brainless sprig who had recently come here from Fonda, it was not wholly devoid of interest for Clyde. The latter‚ÅÝ‚Äîa youth of about Clyde‚Äôs own age and equally ambitious socially‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut without Clyde‚Äôs tact or discrimination anent the governing facts of life, was connected with the men‚Äôs furnishing department of Stark and Company. He was spry, avid, attractive enough physically, with very light hair, a very light and feeble mustache, and the delicate airs and ways of a small town Beau Brummell. Never having had any social standing or the use of any means whatsoever‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis father having been a small town dry goods merchant before him, who had failed‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe was, because of some atavistic spur or fillip in his own blood, most anxious to attain some sort of social position.</p>
			<p>But failing that so far, he was interested in and envious of those who had it‚ÅÝ‚Äîmuch more so than Clyde, even. The glory and activity of the leading families of this particular city had enormous weight with him‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe Nicholsons, the Starks, the Harriets, Griffiths, Finchleys, et cetera. And learning a few days after Clyde‚Äôs arrival of his somewhat left-handed connection with this world, he was most definitely interested. What? A Griffiths! The nephew of the rich Samuel Griffiths of Lycurgus! And in this boarding house! Beside him at this table! At once his interest rose to where he decided that he must cultivate this stranger as speedily as possible. Here was a real social opportunity knocking at his very door‚ÅÝ‚Äîa connecting link to one of the very best families! And besides was he not young, attractive and probably ambitious like himself‚ÅÝ‚Äîa fellow to play around with if one could? He proceeded at once to make overtures to Clyde. It seemed almost too good to be true.</p>
			<p>In consequence he was quick to suggest a walk, the fact that there was a certain movie just on at the Mohawk, which was excellent‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery snappy. Didn‚Äôt Clyde want to go? And because of his neatness, smartness‚ÅÝ‚Äîa touch of something that was far from humdrum or the heavy practicality of the mill and the remainder of this boarding house world, Clyde was inclined to fall in with him.</p>
			<p>But, as he now thought, here were his great relatives and he must watch his step here. Who knew but that he might be making a great mistake in holding such free and easy contacts as this. The Griffiths‚ÅÝ‚Äîas well as the entire world of which they were a part‚ÅÝ‚Äîas he guessed from the general manner of all those who even contacted him, must be very removed from the commonalty here. More by instinct than reason, he was inclined to stand off and look very superior‚ÅÝ‚Äîmore so since those, including this very youth on whom he practised this seemed to respect him the more. And although upon eager‚ÅÝ‚Äîand even‚ÅÝ‚Äîafter its fashion, supplicating request, he now went with this youth‚ÅÝ‚Äîstill he went cautiously. And his aloof and condescending manner Dillard at once translated as ‚Äúclass‚Äù and ‚Äúconnection.‚Äù And to think he had met him in this dull, dubby boarding house here. And on his arrival‚ÅÝ‚Äîat the very inception of his career here.</p>
			<p>And so his manner was that of the sycophant‚ÅÝ‚Äîalthough he had a better position and was earning more money than Clyde was at this time, twenty-two dollars a week.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI suppose you‚Äôll be spending a good deal of your time with your relatives and friends here,‚Äù he volunteered on the occasion of their first walk together, and after he had extracted as much information as Clyde cared to impart, which was almost nothing, while he volunteered a few, most decidedly furbished bits from his own history. His father owned a dry goods store <em>now</em>. He had come over here to study other methods, et cetera. He had an uncle here‚ÅÝ‚Äîconnected with Stark and Company. He had met a few‚ÅÝ‚Äînot so many as yet‚ÅÝ‚Äînice people here, since he hadn‚Äôt been here so very long himself‚ÅÝ‚Äîfour months all told.</p>
			<p>But Clyde‚Äôs relatives!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSay your uncle must be worth over a million, isn‚Äôt he? They say he is. Those houses in Wykeagy Avenue are certainly the cats‚Äô. You won‚Äôt see anything finer in Albany or Utica or Rochester either. Are you Samuel Griffiths‚Äô own nephew? You don‚Äôt say! Well, that‚Äôll certainly mean a lot to you here. I wish I had a connection like that. You bet I‚Äôd make it count.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He beamed on Clyde eagerly and hopefully, and through him Clyde sensed even more how really important this blood relation was. Only think how much it meant to this strange youth.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I don‚Äôt know,‚Äù replied Clyde dubiously, and yet very much flattered by this assumption of intimacy. ‚ÄúI came on to learn the collar business, you know. Not to play about very much. My uncle wants me to stick to that, pretty much.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSure, sure. I know how that is,‚Äù replied Dillard, ‚Äúthat‚Äôs the way my uncle feels about me, too. He wants me to stick close to the work here and not play about very much. He‚Äôs the buyer for Stark and Company, you know. But still a man can‚Äôt work all the time, either. He‚Äôs got to have a little fun.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, that‚Äôs right,‚Äù said Clyde‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor the first time in his life a little condescendingly.</p>
			<p>They walked along in silence for a few moments. Then:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you dance?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù answered Clyde.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, so do I. There are a lot of cheap dance halls around here, but I never go to any of those. You can‚Äôt do it and keep in with the nice people. This is an awfully close town that way, they say. The best people won‚Äôt have anything to do with you unless you go with the right crowd. It‚Äôs the same way up at Fonda. You have to ‚Äòbelong‚Äô or you can‚Äôt go out anywhere at all. And that‚Äôs right, I guess. But still there are a lot of nice girls here that a fellow can go with‚ÅÝ‚Äîgirls of right nice families‚ÅÝ‚Äînot in society, of course‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut still, they‚Äôre not talked about, see. And they‚Äôre not so slow, either. Pretty hot stuff, some of them. And you don‚Äôt have to marry any of ‚Äôem, either.‚Äù Clyde began to think of him as perhaps a little too lusty for his new life here, maybe. At the same time he liked him some. ‚ÄúBy the way,‚Äù went on Dillard, ‚Äúwhat are you doing next Sunday afternoon?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, nothing in particular, that I know of just now,‚Äù replied Clyde, sensing a new problem here. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know just what I may have to do by then, but I don‚Äôt know of anything now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, how‚Äôd you like to come with me, if you‚Äôre not too busy. I‚Äôve come to know quite a few girls since I‚Äôve been here. Nice ones. I can take you out and introduce you to my uncle‚Äôs family, if you like. They‚Äôre nice people. And afterwards‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI know two girls we can go and see‚ÅÝ‚Äîpeaches. One of ‚Äôem did work in the store, but she don‚Äôt now‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe‚Äôs not doing anything now. The other is her pal. They have a Victrola and they can dance. I know it isn‚Äôt the thing to dance here on Sundays but no one need know anything about that. The girls‚Äô parents don‚Äôt mind. Afterwards we might take ‚Äôem to a movie or something‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you want to‚ÅÝ‚Äînot any of those things down near the mill district but one of the better ones‚ÅÝ‚Äîsee?‚Äù</p>
			<p>There formulated itself in Clyde‚Äôs mind the question as to what, in regard to just such proposals as this, his course here was to be. In Chicago, and recently‚ÅÝ‚Äîbecause of what happened in Kansas City‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe had sought to be as retiring and cautious as possible. For‚ÅÝ‚Äîafter that and while connected with the club, he had been taken with the fancy of trying to live up to the ideals with which the seemingly stern face of that institution had inspired him‚ÅÝ‚Äîconservatism‚ÅÝ‚Äîhard work‚ÅÝ‚Äîsaving one‚Äôs money‚ÅÝ‚Äîlooking neat and gentlemanly. It was such an Eveless paradise, that.</p>
			<p>In spite of his quiet surroundings here, however, the very air of the city seemed to suggest some such relaxation as this youth was now suggesting‚ÅÝ‚Äîa form of diversion that was probably innocent enough but still connected with girls and their entertainment‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere were so many of them here, as he could see. These streets, after dinner, here, were so alive with good-looking girls, and young men, too. But what might his new found relatives think of him in case he was seen stepping about in the manner and spirit which this youth‚Äôs suggestions seemed to imply? Hadn‚Äôt he just said that this was an awfully close town and that everybody knew nearly everything about everybody else? He paused in doubt. He must decide now. And then, being lonely and hungry for companionship, he replied:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI think that‚Äôs all right.‚Äù But he added a little dubiously: ‚ÄúOf course my relatives here‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, sure, that‚Äôs all right,‚Äù replied Dillard smartly. ‚ÄúYou have to be careful, of course. Well, so do I.‚Äù If he could only go around with a Griffiths, even if he was new around here and didn‚Äôt know many people‚ÅÝ‚Äîwouldn‚Äôt it reflect a lot of credit on him? It most certainly would‚ÅÝ‚Äîdid already, as he saw it.</p>
			<p>And forthwith he offered to buy Clyde some cigarettes‚ÅÝ‚Äîa soda‚ÅÝ‚Äîanything he liked. But Clyde, still feeling very strange and uncertain, excused himself, after a time, because this youth with his complacent worship of society and position, annoyed him a little, and made his way back to his room. He had promised his mother a letter and he thought he had better go back and write it, and incidentally to think a little on the wisdom of this new contact.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
